Hi, this is me Dustin: Welcome to the smartest every day.
Maybe you've run the power switch thousands of times in your life, right?
Do you know that roar when life comes to life in the engine?
Have you ever thought about what happens inside the engine?
Think about it, you have thousands of explosions
Every minute and all unite
To make one unified voice
Well today in the smartest every day, I want to learn what
Occurs in each disc.
We can look at it to blow up
Produces inside the combustion chamber in the transparent potato gun bar
But for years I wanted to see inside the engine works
Today in the smartest every day today will see it
Someone posted on the smartest page every day
There is a channel called
King Road 805 which did exactly what I mentioned
Transparent motor. So I took it
High-speed camera and we went to Cinnaminson - New Jersey to meet Everett
This sounds like the right place
Hey Everett? He's Dustin. What's News
I'm Dustin. how are you? please enter ..
We were about to contact you because Telefonati was unemployed ..
Welcome! How are you doing? I'm Dustin. It's good to meet you
how are you? Very good. I am honored to meet you
Oh, you have a music! (jukebox)
Did you like it? It's 1953 issue
that's cool. that's cool.
I'll let you take her picture later
(Laughs) What are you doing, guys? Is this the workshop?
This is my friend
(Dustin) Oh, her smell of freedom
This is Everett. He works with his friend Mike
To make all kinds of small mechanical miracles
Their specialty is to disassemble a single cylinder of Briggs and Starton engines from the 1950s
And convert them to many other things
For example, this one is run to hit and miss the engine. Which is really hard to do.
This one is the absolute Frankenstein. They took four single cylinder engines,
Chopped off, and put them together to make one four-cylinder engine that runs like a small kitten.
Something amazing!
(Mike): The solicitation is actually here (pointing). (D): And you welded that !? (M): Yes, there is ---
(D): How do you weld four engines together and then they have aligned that crankshaft can go there?
(Mike, humbled): It took a long time to do.
If you do not really appreciate what I'm saying here,
Just understand these guys do very difficult things with very simple tools.
They perform mainly mechanical magic.
That is why I wanted to see ... this.
This is it, huh?
love it.
(Voice): on the normal Briggs and Stratton engine,
The lighter is right in the middle on top of the cylinder,
It was launched by a magnet that moves past the coil.
These guys move the lighter so you can see down in the engine
Came with a clever way to shoot with a coil of buzz from the 1920s.
They also run a cylinder for propane gas instead of gasoline
It is cleaner and makes the engine longer.
Now we understand that this is the basis of the normal engine
They had taken the metal head out of and replaced it with an acrylic head,
Set his time to get the high-speed camera up
We see one thing I've wanted to see for years
- Explosion inside engine.
(D): I can not tell you how excited I am about this mount camera you built
(Laughs) as she raises her engine.
It's like, this is the most pleasing thing I have ever seen.
(M): I just run it.
(D, voice commentary): Well this is a beautiful and launch,
But I want to understand exactly what is going on.
We have a piston on the left, moving up and down inside the cylinder,
Two valves on the right.
Let's take a look at how the 4-stroke engine works,
And count off all four strokes with me.
The first thing that happens is one of the valves on the right open,
Allow the fuel mixture and air to be drawn into the cylinder.
This is called stroke intake.
When the piston gets near the bottom of the cylinder,
Close the pull valve, and then start the piston to press the gas.
This is called a pressure stroke.
The third stroke is a beautiful one.
This is called power stroke
Explosion occurs and increases the pressure inside the cylinder
It applies the force to face the plunger pushed it down.
When all these gases have been burned after the third stroke, the exhaust valve then opens
A fourth stroke is called an exhaust stroke to wipe the cylinder from all those exhaust gases.
The pull valve then opens the backup, and the process starts over and over again.
Timing is everything in the engine to make sure it works properly. For example we want to make sure
The spark occurs before the piston is at the top of the dead center
You want to press in order to build up at the same time as the piston is ready to start moving down.
When you hear a person talk about pushing or discouraging the timing of the engine
The timing of the spark is what we are talking about.
If you are really looking closely you can see this part happen before the piston reaches the top of the stroke.
I asked Everett and Mike if they would not dare run the gasoline engine for me
Because I wanted to see a brighter torch. I was really excited when they said yes.
I was more impressed when they said they could change the engine mode in just over seconds
(D): So we already converted, like finished it? (M): That's it
(D): That was fast
(D): The guy who is good there.
(D, voiceover): Ok now that you know how the engines work, watch all of the four strokes and see if you can recognize each one.
Accommodating
pressure
Energy
exhaust
Compression exhaust intake power
Now think about the engine in your car all the blasts are synchronized together to make this
One fixed sound roaring engine.
I think what was found is really refreshing in making this video you've got Everett who retired
He got Mike and Bill who came later
Shop and help us out these guys
Generations are quite different however
They work together to
They completely love engines in, such as,
Absolutely the way to apologize it
Beautiful
Anyway I'll leave the links in the video
Description for all of YouTube
Channels I would enjoy it if you are
You will consider the subscription. They're small
Channels this kind of thing will really help out
(D): Great thanks to 805 Rod King for
Help me imagine an engine for that, thank you very much
Bill, Everett, Mike, was a blast
(Everett): This is dirtbike5100 and SmallEngineMechanic (D): Oh yeah, there you go
These guys have all the YouTube channels
I'll leave the links in the video description
I hope you enjoy this episode of the program
The intelligence of each day was sponsored
Audio and book I'm about to
Recommend means a lot to me you
You know Everett and Mike have this you know
Relationship though their ages are
Completely different
My father recommended that I read this book
It has long been wonderful
It's about a young man trying to figure out
Of its way in the world and 12th
Century Europe after taking his father
We'll say I do not want to give
Anything away but called it (audible narrator): Drum walking Louis L'Amour
(D): This is John Curless
And he does a good job reading this dang
Book I enjoyed it. It's a very thick book I can not
Really sit down and read these like me
Used to be able to but with audio books
I can hear it back and forth on my own
Drive I've even heard it while like Bush
Shear area I really enjoyed this
A book full of wonderful quotes that
The fair wisdom I really enjoyed it
Please get this book at audible.com /
Smarter than there behind the scenes
The video on the second channel goes to
The timing of this engine is how
Modified to all acrylic shape
That stuff is cool
We just decide on how to fix it with
The back pressure that it just needs is backwards
Pressure